# Native Ads

## Prerequisites
Import the SAN Mobile Ads SDK, Please read the doc `san_sdk_get_started_ios.pdf` first

## Always test with test ads
- Before you begin, remember that when building and testing your apps, you should be sure that you're using test ads rather than live, production ads. Testing with production ads could lead to suspension of your account.

- The easiest way to load test ads is to use our dedicated test ad unit ID for all native advanced ads on iOS:
    > `pid_demo-1000010_1001`

    you're free to use it in your own apps while coding, testing, and debugging. Just make sure you replace it with your own ad unit ID before publishing your app.

## Loading ads
Native ads are loaded via `SANAdLoader` objects, which send messages to their delegates according to the `SANAdLoaderDelegate` protocol.

### Initialize the ad loader
Before you can load an ad, you have to initialize the ad loader. The following code demonstrates how to initialize a `SANAdLoader`:
```objc
self.adLoader = [[SANAdLoader alloc]
      initWithAdUnitID:@"pid_demo-1000010_1001"
    rootViewController:rootViewController
               adTypes:@[ SANAdLoaderAdTypeNative ]
               options:@[ ... ad loader options objects ... ]];
self.adLoader.delegate = self;
```
The adTypes array should contain this constant:

- `SANAdLoaderAdTypeNative`

### Implement the ad loader delegate
The ad loader delegate needs to implement protocols specific your ad type. For native ads:

- `SANNativeAdLoaderDelegate` This protocol includes a message that's sent to the delegate when a native ad has loaded:
```objc
- (void)adLoader:(SANAdLoader *)adLoader didReceiveNativeAd:(SANNativeAd *)nativeAd;
```

### Request the ad
Once your `SANAdLoader` is initialized, call its `loadRequest`: method to request an ad:
```objc
[self.adLoader loadRequest:[SANRequest request]];
```
The `loadRequest`: method in `SANAdLoader` accepts the same `SANRequest` objects as banners and interstitials. You can use request objects to add targeting information, just as you would with other ad types.

**When to request ads**

Apps displaying native ads are free to request them in advance of when they'll actually be displayed. In many cases, this is the recommended practice. An app displaying a list of items with native ads mixed in, for example, can load native ads for the whole list, knowing that some will be shown only after the user scrolls the view and some may not be displayed at all.

### Determining when loading has finished
After an app calls `loadRequest`:, it can get the results of the request via calls to:

- `adLoader:didFailToReceiveAdWithError`: in SANAdLoaderDelegate
- `adLoader:didReceiveNativeAd`: in SANNativeAdLoaderDelegate

A request for a single ad will result in one call to one of those methods.

A request for multiple ads will result in at least one callback to the above methods, but no more than the maximum number of ads requested.

In addition, `SANAdLoaderDelegate` offers the `adLoaderDidFinishLoading `callback. This delegate method indicates that an ad loader has finished loading ads and no other ads or errors will be reported for the request. Here's an example of how to use it when loading several native ads at one time:
```objc
@interface ViewController () <SANNativeAdLoaderDelegate, SANVideoControllerDelegate>
@property(nonatomic, strong) SANAdLoader *adLoader;

@end

@implementation ViewController

- (void)viewDidLoad {
  [super viewDidLoad];

  SANMultipleAdsAdLoaderOptions *multipleAdsOptions =
      [[SANMultipleAdsAdLoaderOptions alloc] init];
  multipleAdsOptions.numberOfAds = 5;

  self.adLoader = [[SANAdLoader alloc] initWithAdUnitID:YOUR_AD_UNIT_ID
          rootViewController:self
                     adTypes:@[SANAdLoaderAdTypeNative]
                     options:@[multipleAdsOptions]];
  self.adLoader.delegate = self;
  [self.adLoader loadRequest:[SANRequest request]];
}

- (void)adLoader:(SANAdLoader *)adLoader
    didReceiveNativeAd:(SANNativeAd *)nativeAd {
   // A native ad has loaded, and can be displayed.
}

- (void)adLoaderDidFinishLoading:(SANAdLoader *) adLoader {
  // The adLoader has finished loading ads, and a new request can be sent.
}

@end
```

### Handling failed requests
The above protocols extend the `SANAdLoaderDelegate` protocol, which defines a message sent when ads fail to load.
```objc
- (void)adLoader:(SANAdLoader *)adLoader didFailToReceiveAdWithError:(NSError *)error;
```
**Get notified of native ad events**

To be notified of events related to the native ad interactions, set the delegate property of the native ad:
```objc
nativeAd.delegate = self;
```
Then implement `SANNativeAdDelegate` to receive the following delegate calls:
```objc
- (void)nativeAdDidRecordImpression:(SANNativeAd *)nativeAd {
  // The native ad was shown.
}

- (void)nativeAdDidRecordClick:(SANNativeAd *)nativeAd {
  // The native ad was clicked on.
}

- (void)nativeAdWillPresentScreen:(SANNativeAd *)nativeAd {
  // The native ad will present a full screen view.
}

- (void)nativeAdWillDismissScreen:(SANNativeAd *)nativeAd {
  // The native ad will dismiss a full screen view.
}

- (void)nativeAdDidDismissScreen:(SANNativeAd *)nativeAd {
  // The native ad did dismiss a full screen view.
}

- (void)nativeAdWillLeaveApplication:(SANNativeAd *)nativeAd {
  // The native ad will cause the application to become inactive and
  // open a new application.
}
```

## Display your ad
Once you have loaded an ad, all that remains is to display it to your users.